Part 1: Setting up the Development Environment
Setting up Laravel
Installing PHP and Composer.
Installing Laravel Installer.
Creating a new Laravel project.
Setting up Vue.js
Installing Node.js and npm.
Adding Vue.js to the Laravel project using Laravel Mix or creating a separate Vue.js project.
Configuring Laravel for API development
Setting up the database.
Setting up Laravel Sanctum for API Authentication

Part 2: Building the REST API with Laravel
Designing the Database Schema
Design the tables and relationships.
Building the API
Creating migrations and models.
Setting up API Routes.
Building API controllers and defining CRUD operations.
Validating request data.
Implementing authentication using tokens.
Testing API endpoints using Postman or another REST client.


Part 3: Building the Frontend with Vue.js
Introduction to Vue.js
Basic concepts: Components, Directives, Events.
Setting up Vue.js in the Project
Installing necessary dependencies.
Configuring webpack with Laravel Mix if using in the same project.
Building Components
Creating Vue.js components for different UI elements.
Communicating with the API
Making HTTP requests to the Laravel API using axios or another HTTP client.
Handling responses and rendering data on the frontend.
User Authentication
Building a login component.
Implementing Authentication with the API.
Protecting routes and handling authentication state.


Part 4: Bringing it All Together
Integrating Frontend and Backend
Make sure the Vue.js frontend can communicate with the Laravel API.
Error Handling
Implement proper error handling on both the frontend and backend.
Deployment
Guide on deploying the full-stack application.
Suggestions for hosting services.
Conclusion
Recap of what was learned.
Suggestions for further improvement and learning.


Part 1: Setting up the Development Environment For Laravel 10
In this part let’s start with Laravel for the backend. Before we begin, ensure that you have PHP installed on your system, as Laravel is a PHP framework. You will also need Composer, which is a dependency manager for PHP.

Step 1: Install Laravel
First, let’s install Laravel using Composer. Open your terminal and enter the following command:

composer global require laravel/installer
PHP

This command will install the Laravel installer globally on your system.

Step 2: Create a New Laravel Project
Now, let’s create a new Laravel project. Run the following command, replacing your_project_name with the desired project name:

laravel new EcommerceApp
PHP

This command creates a new directory with your project name and installs a fresh Laravel installation in that directory.

Step 3: Running the Laravel Application
Navigate to the newly created project directory:

cd EcommerceApp
PHP

Now, let’s run the Laravel development server:

php artisan serve
PHP

You should see an output indicating that the server is running. By default, it runs on http://127.0.0.1:8000. Open this URL in your web browser to see the Laravel welcome page.

Step 5: Setting Up a Database
Let’s set up a database for our application. You can use any database that Laravel supports. In this tutorial, we’ll use MySQL. You can create a new database using phpMyAdmin or the command line.

After creating the database, open the .env file in the root of your Laravel project. Update the following lines with your database connection information:

DB_CONNECTION=mysql
DB_HOST=127.0.0.1
DB_PORT=3306
DB_DATABASE=ecommerceapp
DB_USERNAME=root
DB_PASSWORD=
PHP

Now, let’s run the migrations to create the necessary tables:

php artisan migrate